Q: What is ULTRAKILL?
A: ULTRAKILL is a fast-paced, first person shooter that revolves around the player making their way through an interpretation of Dante's Layers of Hell. The game revolves around killing demons for blood, which is the fuel source of the player in the game. The game is heavily dependent on quick movement and stylish kills. 

Q: What are the weapons in the game?
A: ULTRAKILL offers a variety of weapons to use, many of which need to be unlocked, however, variants can be bought after a type of weapon is owned. The base weapons are the Pistol and its alternate (Slab Revolver), the Shotgun and its alternate (Jackhammer), the Nailgun and its alternate (Sawblade Launcher), the Railcannon, and the Rocket Launcher. Each of these weapons (alternates included) can have up to 3 variants which changes the main function of the weapon. 

Q: What kind of enemies are in the game?
A: There is a vast catalogue of enemies in ULTRAKILL. Each enemy falls under a classification or catagory. There are Husks, Demons, Machines, and Angels. While these 4 classifications don't do much except give you an idea of what the enemy is capable of, these classes are split further into strength categories. These are Lesser, Greater, and Supreme. Lesser enemies are typically fodder, though they may appear in swarms or come as support for more dangerous enemies. Greater enemies are, of course, much more dangerous, being a bulk of the trouble one may face in the game aside from Supreme enemies and bosses. Supreme enemies are the real deal in ULTRAKILL. While a majority of these enemies are bosses, a few appear as common enemies later on. These enemies are very dangerous and often require the full attention of most players in order to defeat, making stages where they appear with support a real hassle. 

Q: What is the objective of the game?
A: ULTRAKILL is about beating enemies and killing them in the most stylish way possible. This is supplemented by the Style Meter on the side of your screen, which lists various stylish moves when you perform them and reward you with points for doing so. People often criticize the game for having "no clear goal," however, many loyal fans say that those critics are taking the game too seriously and should play stylishly. 

Q: What is the lore behind ULTRAKILL?
A: ULTRAKILL follows the journey of a machine, V1, as they venture into the depths of Hell after humanity's extinction. While the cause of mankind's fall is unclear, various terminals scattered around levels indicate that Hell used its energy to make the machines humanity built during the Final War to turn on their masters. After wiping humanity, it is implied that the machines, unsatiated by their newfound lust for blood, ventured into Hell to kill its denizens. Which brings us to the beginning, V1 falling into the entrance of Hell, and the game begins. As V1 ventures through Hell, killing Husks, Demons, and bloodthirsty machines, he acquires a huge arsenal of weapons and begins pushing deeper into Hell, killing anyone in the process. No one, from a stray Filth to Archangel Gabriel, is spared from the slaughter. 

Q: Why is ULTRAKILL so popular?
A: ULTRAKILL owes its popularity to the love fans had for its movement mechanics and clear similarity to first person shooters of the old times. As people started playing the game more and more for fun, people began experimenting with playstyles, stylish movement, stylish kills, and ultimately reported having more fun by just playing the game without worrying about completing it or anything. 

Q: What is the best way to play ULTRAKILL?
A: ULTRAKILL has no real "best playstyle." The game revolves entirely about having fun your way. However, a few suggestions include: playing to beat the game as quickly as possible, also known as speedrunning; playing to get as many style points as possible for each level; playing the game on Lenient Difficulty and enjoying feeling like fast characters such as the Flash; or playing the game on harder difficulties such as Violent and BRUTAL for and additional challenge. 

Q: How can I get good at ULTRAKILL quickly?
A: ULTRAKILL has a very low skill floor when starting off. If you feel like you aren't able to play as stylishly or avoid dying as many times as seasoned players, do not feel discouraged. ULTRAKILL takes time and practice to master, but only takes consistent playing sessions to understand. With enough practice, you will soon be able to play ULTRAKILL to your highest capabilities. 

Q: How do you get alternate weapon variants in ULTRAKILL?
A: You can unlock each of the 3 alternate weapon variants by completing the mini quest tied to each one. For the Alternate Revolver, you must find 3 slab-shaped buttons around the 4 levels of Limbo. After pressing all 4 and going to the large vault door to the left of the hallway intersection will give you the Alternate (Slab) Revolver. For the Alternate Shotgun, you need to find 3 slabs located around the Violence Layer. Each slab is able to be pressed after completing a timed course to reach each slabs. After reaching a door on 7-2; LIGHT UP THE NIGHT that is located at a train checkpoint in a building with a hole in the roof, you can open the door after the slabs have been pressed. There you will obtain the Jackhammer. The alternate Nailgun can be obtained in 4-4: CLAIR DE SOLEIL, when you use the Electric Railcannon on a pool of water by firing it through a crack in a doorway. This will open another door near you, where you can walk in to see the Corpse of King Sisyphus, and the Sawblade Launcher for you to take. 

Q: How is the Alternate Revolver different from the normal Pistol?
A: The Alternate Revolver is different in a few ways. The Slab Revolver, for one, fires 2 hitscan shots with one attack, and has a noticible cooldown between primary fires. While it fires 2 bullets per shot, each of which deal more damage, it has a significant cooldown between primary shots. The charge shot, charges similarly to the Pistols, however, the Slab Revolver fires 6, 1.25 damage shots with its Charge Shot, compared to the default Pistol's 3, 1 damage shots. Plus, the Slab Revolver recharges its Charge Shot twice as slowly as the normal Pistol. 

Q: How is the Alternate Shotgun different from the normal Shotgun?
A: The Jackhamemr is very different from the Shotgun. For starters, the Jackhammer is a pseudo-melee weapon, as it does not fire shotgun shells. Instead, you charge the Jackhammer by holding down primary fire, however, damage dealt is not based on how long you charge the Jackhammer. Damage dealt is based on how fast you are moving. The Jackhammer combines the game's fast paced movement with the Jackhammer's damage mechanic to deal more damage the faster you are moving. Thus, it is best to charge the Jackhammer, and charge an enemy at full speed and let them have it with a powerful blow to their body. 

Q: How is the Alternate Nailgun different from the normal Nailgun?
A: The Sawblade Launcher, similarly to the Slab Revolver, resembles its default counterpart, while maintaining enough differences to be its own unique weapon. The Sawblade Launcher, unlike the Nailgun, holds 10 large saws in its reserves as opposed to 100 nails. These fly out and deal moderate damage, higher than individual nails, however, at a slower speed than the nailgun launcher. The main utility of this weapon however, similar to the Nailgun, is the magnets it can fire with its secondary fire. These magnets stick to most surfaces. While the nails from the Nailgun will automatically track the nearest magnet to them, sawblades will orbit magnets at a rapid speed, forming something called a "Sawblade Trap" if you use a few sawblades. These, unlike nails, can be used as large area denial against groups of enemies, as opposed to the Nailgun, which is used to deal rapid single target damage against a certain enemy. 

Q: How does the Pistol work?
A: The default Pistol, excluding variants, fires a singe shot every 0.5 seconds or so, dealing 1 damager per shot. It is a standard issue pistol that you recieve when beginning the game in the level 0-1: INTO THE FIRE. The Charge Shot fires 3 piercing shots that deal 1 damage each. It is typically used to clear out a small group of enemies, but may not always deal good/consistent damage to tankier or more mobile enemies. Both the primary fire and Charge Shot can ricochet off of coins from the Marksman Pistol.

Q: How does the Shotgun work?
A: The base Shotgun is unlocked after you beat the Swordsmachine boss in 0-3: DOUBLE DOWN (earlier in 0-2: THE MEATGRINDER if you find the secret encounter). It is a futuristic, double-barreled, break-action shotgun. It can fire a singe shot of 12 shotgun shells every 1.25 seconds with each pellet dealing 0.25 damage (3 damage total with every pellet landing). Since the shotgun shells count as projectiles, parrying after shooting your shotgun will cause you to punch your own shotgun bullet (+PROJECTILE BOOST) and turn it into a hitscan that deals explosive damage upon contact with a surface or enemy. Alt fire will launch the shotguns core out in front of you, exploding upon contact with a surface or enemy. Charging alt fire will send the core further. While good for clearing out groups of enemies and dealing solid damage against tanky targets, certain enemies are resistant against explosions, causing them to be resistant against Projectile Boosts and core launches. 

Q: How does the Nailgun work?
A: The Nailgun is unlocked in the level 1-1: HEART OF THE SUNRISE. It holds 100 nails in its reserve. It rapidly fires these nails at a rate of 25 nails per second, meaning you will run out of nails after 4 seconds of continuous fire. Nails regenerate at a rate of 5 nails per second, thus, you will regain all your nails after about 20 seconds, though you can fire the weapon as long as you have nails in your reserve. Each nail does 0.205 damage. Combining that with the rapid rate of fire yields around 5.125 damage per second, assuming all nails hit. This makes the nailgun extremely powerful for single target combat. Alt fire will launch a magnet rod out in front of you which can stick to surfaces and enemies. Magnets are capable of attracting a variety of things, from nails to rockets from the rocket launcher. Nails that pass close to a magnet will automatically be attracted to it, embedding themselves into an enemy if they come into contact with one. Nails also have a unique interaction with the Electric Railcannon. Electrifying an enemy with the railcannon while they have nails lodged in them will cause the nails to explode, dealing 0.06 damage per exploded nail. 

Q: How does the Railcannon work?
A: The Railcannon is unlocked in the level 2-2: DEATH AT 20,000 VOLTS. The Electric Railcannon (default) fires a single electric beam out in front of you, dealing 8 damage, exploding nails that are lodged in struck enemies, temporarily electrifying water, and is able to ricochet off of coins from the Marksman Pistol. The weapon has a 16 second recharge period where firing will not do anything, and it recharges on stow, meaning it will recharge even when not held out. Alt fire simply scopes in as the Railcannon was not intended to have a secondary feature. 

Q: How does the Rocket Launcher work?
A: The Rocket Launcher is unlocked in the level 5-3: SHIP OF FOOLS. The Rocket Launcher fires a rocket out in front of it at a fast speed, exploding and dealing knockback without damage if it hits a surface, and exploding and dealing damage if it comes into direct contact with an enemy. A rocket colliding with an airborne enemy that doesn't fly will create a bigger, red explosion that deals more damage. The Rockets from the Rocket Launcher are capable of attracting towards magnets, and will explode with damage if they come into contact with them. Alt fire will freeze active rockets in the air while draining a meter. You can mount frozen rockets and unfreeze to ride them, or shoot those rockets to deal explosions midair. Freezing a rocket for more than a second will freezecharge it, making it deal more damage and have a bigger explosion when detonated. Beware however, as certain enemies are vulnerable to rockets, while others are resistant against them. 

Q: What are weapon variants?
A: Each weapon has 3 variants, Blue, Green, and Red. Each variant keeps the original function of the weapon while changing something else about it, usually the alternative fire mechanism. For example, the difference between the Core-Eject Shotgun (Blue) and the Pump Charge Shotgun (Green) is in their alt fires. Alt fire with the Core-Eject will launch a core out in front of you, which explodes on contact with a surface or enemy. Holding alt fire will launch the core further. However, alt fire with the Pump Charge will pump the shotgun, increasing the damage and bullet speed of the next shot. The shotgun can be pumped up to 3 times, each pump increasing the damage and speed of the next shot, however, the third pump will overcharge the pump meter, and the next shot will instead be explosive, dealing 50 points of self-damage to you if you do not dash out of the way. Variants are simply variations of the standard Blue version of each weapon that modify the abilities of said weapon. 

Q: How do I unlock variants?
A: Variants can be purchased at a terminal at the beginning of each level with the Points currency. Points can be obtained by playing stylishly and completing levels. 

Q: How do I obtain Points?
A: Points can be obtained by playing stylishly and completing levels. 

Q: What is the terminal?
A: The Terminal is a sentient machine that serves as a sort of menu at the beginning of levels and before boss fights or the CYBERGRIND. Walking up to the Terminal will cause V1 (you) to put up a finger and clicking will cause v1 to tap the screen of the Terminal. At the Terminal, you can switch weapons, arms, view enemy logs, view weapon statistics, and customize weapons. 

Q: What are arms?
A: Arms are a function in ULTRAKILL that allow you to perform secondary attacks by pressing the punch key. Currently there are 3 arms in the game, the Feedbacker(Blue), the Knuckleblaster(Red), and the Whiplash(Green). You can swap between the Feedbacker and Knuckleblaster with the swap key. The Whiplash has its own designated key to use it. 

Q: What does the Feedbacker do?
A: The Feedbacker is V1's(your) default hand. Punching with the feedbacker deals miniscule damage, however, the main power of the Feedbacker is the ability to parry projectiles and certain attacks. Attacks will flash yellow indicating they are parryable, whereas most projectiles will be parryable regardless of a flash showing or not. Blue flashes indicate non-parryable attacks. Parrying attacks typically deal more damage than straight punching or sometimes even more than your other weapons, all while keeping yourself safe from damage. 

Q: What does the Knuckleblaster do?
A: The Knuckleblaster is obtained after beating V2 in the level 1-4: CLAIR DE LUNE. The Knuckleblaster deals far more damage when punching than the Feedbacker. Holding the punch key will cause you to fire the shotgun shells inside the fist, dealing slight damage and a spherical shockwave that knocks back enemies, or upward if they are close enough. However, as a drawback, you cannot parry attacks with the Knuckleblaster. 

Q: What does the Whiplash do? 
A: The Whiplash is obtained after beating V2 a second time in the level 4-4: CLAIR DE SOLEIL. The Whiplash has its own designated key, unlike the other two arms. Pressing the Whiplash key will launch out a grappling hook that will hook onto enemies or certain hook points. Hooking an enemy will pull it towards you, or you towards them, depending on the enemies weight. 